# 70. Discrete Math and Probability Theory.

### Programming + Microprocessors = Superpower

What are your super powers doing? Proofs!

Induction! Remember the recursive leap of faith from CS 61A. Induction is essentially the same thing. But its even simpler. It's asking what's after 1. what's after every integer, is there another one? yes, this is the idea of recursion.

### What can computers do?
work with discrete objects. learn and interact with the world. machine learning, data analysis, robotics, Probability.

### What do we want?
for you to think better and you learn powerfully. And to deal clearly with uncertainty itself.

### Probably Unit
How can we predict unknown future events.

### Learning
Veritassium on Khan. Learn science is fun. Sweat of learning. We don't like to think we are wrong. Self-confidence. When confused we get nervous, lack self-confidence. We will be in this position of lack of self-confidence. We will be confused. But don't stop learning. Watch the same video over and over again until it makes sense. Ask others for help. CSM 70. Discussions. Office Hours.

### Metacognition.

Actual Recall. Predicted Recall.

### Why I use slides and some advice.

Lots of arguments are demonstrated well by examples of verbal explanations, but sometimes painful to write down which works for me with slides

We have these slides to guide us, they are an artifact. Really understand these slides. There was often feedback on how lectures were not good. But slides were enough to prepare for exams.

Challenge yourself to work through the curriculum. Repeating the same thing many times. There are some jokes in there. Details are there. Sometimes the details aren't there. You will get frustrated. Even Rao is confused after lecture. Is it really how it works? Students get frustrated at not understanding everything. Students should get frustrated not trying to understand everything. its ok many levels to grok. lecture is one pass. notes cover materials. discussion. vitamins. homework. study. 4 iterations of recall and there will be work, but thats how you learn.

### How to interact with staff

Staff won't answer the question. It has to be an interaction. TA should be asking questions and see where you are with concepts. From there we will have you moved forward. You can ask question and give 5 minute talk. But your knowledge is what is most important. That's why this interaction is so important. Avoid long explanations with nodding students. You must checkin meaningfully. You can do this yourself. I'm lost! try to figure where you are lost. Do you understand definitions? question? Bring up the notes.

### Advice from former TAs

I read the notes until I could reproduced the proofs myself. When I took the course, I tried my best to attend every discussion and understand them to the point of being able to replicate them without needing to reference them.

### Admin

Course webpage: eecs70.org

one midterm one final.

logistics on ed, content support, weekly post.

### Wason's experiment: 1
Suppose we have four cards on a table. 1st about Alice. 2nd about Bob. 3rd Charlie. 4th Donna.

You will see this experiment later on to make correct conclusions.

card has 2 sides. each card says 2 things about each person.

The card contains persons destination on one side, and mode of travel on the other.

**Consider the theory: if a person travels to Chicago, they fly.**

We don't know if this theorem is true. How do we prove this.

Alice: Baltimore

Bob: drove

Charlie: Chicago

Donna: flew

You are allowed to flip over cards. Clearly if you flip everything you'll prove it.

One student is saying only Chicago.

Which card must you flip to to test the theory in bold?

Answer bob and charlie.

### Propositions: Statements that are true or false

sqrt(2) is irrational, TRUE, Propositions
2 + 2 = 4, TRUE, Propositions
2 + 2 = 3, False, Propositions
Johnny Depp is a good actor: Not Proposition.
Any even > 2 is sum of 2 primes. Proposition False.
4 + 5 This is an expression, not proposition
x + x Not a proposition
Alice travelled to Chicago Proposition
I love you, Hmmm
Value of a proposition: True or False.


### Put propositions together to make another...
Conjunction (and). Compound proposition. Upside down V

P and Q are True if both are true.

Disjunction ("or") P V Q

Negation (Not)

### Put them togehter

P1 Person 1 rides the bus


P2 Person 2 rides the bus  

But we cant have either of the following happen: That either person 1 or person 2 ride the bus and person 3 or 4 ride the bus. Or that person 2 or person 3 ride the bus and that either person 4 rides the bus or person 5 doesnt

can person 3 ride the bus??

This seems complicated. We can program!! Doing things mechanically

### Truth Tables.

In some sense this is for "and"

P and Q
P | Q | P and Q
T | T | T
T | F | F
F | T | F
F | F | F
